= PandocRuby

Wrapper for {http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/ Pandoc}, a Haskell library with command line tools for converting one markup format to another.

Pandoc can read markdown and (subsets of) reStructuredText, HTML, and LaTeX, and it can write markdown, reStructuredText, HTML, LaTeX, ConTeXt, PDF, RTF, DocBook XML, OpenDocument XML, ODT, GNU Texinfo, MediaWiki markup, groff man pages, and S5 HTML slide shows

Assumes pandoc executables are in the path.  If not, set their location
with PandocRuby.bin_path = '/path/to/bin'

Use like so:

    @converter = PandocRuby.new('/some/file.md', :from => :markdown, :to => :rst)
    puts @converter.convert

This takes the the Markdown formatted file and converts it to reStructuredText.

You can also use the <tt>#convert</tt> class method:

    puts PandocRuby.convert('/some/file.md', :from => :markdown, :to => :html)

Another also: you get a <tt>#to_s</tt>, for somewhat nicer use in Rails views.

    ... helper file ...
    def format(text)
      PandocRuby.convert(text)
    end

    ... view file ...
    <%= format text %>

The default behavior follows the pandoc executable's behavior, converting markdown to html. To specify options, simply pass options as a hash to the initializer. Pandoc's wrapper executables can also be used by passing the executable name as the second argument. For example,

    PandocRuby.new('/some/file.html', 'html2markdown')

will use Pandoc's <tt>html2markdown</tt> wrapper. 

For more information on Pandoc, see the {http://johnmacfarlane.net/pandoc/ Pandoc documentation} or run <tt>man pandoc</tt>.

Pretty much everything in the gem was derived directly from {http://github.com/github/albino Albino}.

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but
  bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 William Melody. See LICENSE for details.
